# This Week in Eureka College History –This Week in Eureka College History for March 19 paper
 
On March 19, 1912, Eureka College launched a campaign to raise money to construct a gymnasium. The success of that drive would lead to the construction of Pritchard Gymnasium (now Pritchard Fine and Performing Arts Center), which was completed by 1915. The construction of a gymnasium was one of the first signs that marked the maturation, and the permanence, of Eureka College. The creation of the building, like the establishment of Melick Library in 1967, marked the establishment of a building dedicated to a specific purpose in the life of the college.
 
On March 18, 1926, the E Tribe organization was established at Eureka College as an association for students who had lettered in sports. The group was created by legendary coach Ralph McKinzie, Class of 1923, and it represents one of the first ways that he left his mark on the athletic program at Eureka College. E Tribe still exists as an active organization in the life of the college. The group continues to recognize the accomplishments of Eureka College students as scholar-athletes. Members and alumni are involved in annual fundraising efforts to support the intercollegiate athletic program that has played such an integral part of the history and tradition of the institution.
 
On March 21, 1994, two historic events took place. First, it was the opening day for the Donald B. Cerf College Center. The official dedication for the new building would take place in May 1994, but as fourth term classes began in 1994 the new building became operational.
That evening, the Eureka College community gathered in the gymnasium in Reagan Center for a very special homecoming and pep rally event as the Eureka College men's basketball team, the reigning 1994 NAIA Division II national champions, returned to the campus. March 12

The old campus bell tolled on March, 10, 1923, marking the death of Louis Oliver Lehman, Class of 1901. This beloved young president of Eureka College had died of typhoid fever at age 45. Lehman came from Sterling, and as a student was a member of the first basketball team organized at the college. After graduation, he was a pastor at area churches and then was named president of the college in 1919, just as the Division of Higher Education of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) was starting a massive campaign - the “Men and Millions Campaign” - to build endowment at the several colleges and universities that were related to the denomination. Each institution was given a quota of funding that was deemed necessary to keep the school viable and sustainable. It was generally understood that those schools that could not meet the funding levels might not remain in operation.

President Lehman was told that he had to raise $400,000 by 1923 in order to meet the quota. This was a tremendous amount of money, especially in 1920 dollars, and the prospect of raising such an amount during a period of burgeoning economic depression in America’s farming heartland was especially daunting. Lehman traveled for three years meeting with prospective donors and presenting the case for why supporters should help build the endowment of Eureka College. Lehman also made the bold decision to seek support from the Rockefeller Foundation - a move that many believed was unrealistic. In the end, the decision was a brilliant one as the Rockefeller Foundation pledged $135,000 to support Eureka College’s endowment.

The efforts took a toll on the president’s health, however. Six weeks after his death, Eureka College announced that it had exceeded its “Men and Millions” quota by more than $45,000. Louis Oliver Lehman was recognized as a martyr to the institution who gave his all that Eureka College might survive and prosper. The Board of Trustees said of Lehman, “His unbounded faith, his high ideals and his quiet determination were the source of constant inspiration and encouragement to us seeking to establish the college on a more stable basis.”